MIDICSV(1)                        General Commands Manual                        MIDICSV(1)

NAME
       midicsv - translate MIDI file to CSV

SYNOPSIS
       midicsv [ -u -v ] [ infile [ outfile ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       midicsv reads a standard MIDI file and decodes it into a CSV (Comma-Separated Value)
       file which preserves all the information in the MIDI file.  The ASCII CSV  file  may
       be  loaded  into a spreadsheet or database application, or processed by a program to
       transform the MIDI data (for example, to key transpose a composition  or  extract  a
       track from a multi-track sequence).  A CSV file in the format created by midicsv may
       be converted back into a standard MIDI file with the csvmidi program.

OPTIONS
       -u        Print how-to-call information.

       -v        Print verbose debugging information on  standard  error.   The  MIDI  file
                 header is dumped, along with the length of each track in the file.

FILES
       If  no infile is specified or infile is ``-'', midicsv reads its input from standard
       input; if no outfile is given or outfile is ``-'', CSV output is written   to  stan‐
       dard output.  The input and output are processed in a strictly serial manner; conse‐
       quently midicsv may be used in pipelines without restrictions.

BUGS
       midicsv assumes its input is a well-formed standard  MIDI  file;  while  some  error
       checking is performed, gross errors in the input file may cause midicsv to crash.

       Please report problems to bugs@fourmilab.ch.

SEE ALSO
       csvmidi(1), midicsv(5)

AUTHOR
                                           John Walker
                                     http://www.fourmilab.ch/

       This  software  is  in the public domain.  Permission to use, copy, modify, and dis‐
       tribute this software and its documentation for  any  purpose  and  without  fee  is
       hereby  granted,  without any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided
       ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.

4th Berkeley Distribution                9 FEB 2004                              MIDICSV(1)
